[Music]
hello
welcome back to another video i hope
you're having a lovely
day so far super excited for today's
video because
this is like one of my favorite things
of the year which is
making mince pies this is the first year
that i've actually tried like adding my
own spin on them i made them like twice
last week and i was just
trying out some different things and
adding protein
into like the crust of the mince pie
so of course i wanted to share the
recipe with you guys
we're going to make them right
completely from scratch and stuff and
make our own like mince meat um i'm also
going to try and make like
some mince pie like protein oats as well
later on this week sort of mentioned as
well like i wanted to make these
slightly higher protein and lower
calorie
than normal to make them a bit more like
macro friendly
but in the same token i didn't want to
like lose the actual like mince pie
taste so i'm still going to use some
butter
and you know stuff like that so i just
thought i'd pop that at the beginning
but yeah we'll just jump straight into
the recipe for the pastry ingredients
we're using
some plain flour you could also use
almond flour or
oat flour a little bit of almond milk
some vanilla whey
protein i'm using the diet away from phd
the lean
matrix i'll leave my discount code down
below for that
here's what we're using for the filling
dried apricots
saltines some raisin one orange one
apple spicy and mixed by ground nutmeg
some sweet cinnamon i really prefer the
sweet cinnamon too just like your normal
one
a bit of vanilla extract some flakes
almonds as well
if you don't like like specific
ingredients just take them out and pop
whatever you prefer
in there the mince pie is pretty easy to
make to be fair like literally
she's putting everything in a pan
basically leaving it for like 30 to 45
minutes
and then making like the pastry and
popping it in the oven and
i feel like they look harder than they
actually are so i'm just going to start
by
dicing one apple
now i'm just going to spray my pan with
a bit of fry light
of apple into here
and then i'm just taking my raisins i'm
going to measure 80 grams of food
into my pan super easy breakfast it can
literally just all go in one
i've got some sultanas here so i'm just
going to measure out 70 grams of
sultanas as well
30 grams of apricot these are like dried
kind of ones
i'm just gonna chop these into small
little chunks
[Music]
next is 10 grams of flakes almonds
half a tablespoon of flax seed this is
optional
[Music]
and then i'm just gonna slice half the
lemon
next up is the orange i'm just going to
um take like a quarter of
orange zest a quarter i'm going to slice
this in half and then
take about a quarter orange zest and
then squeeze
the other basically half
[Music]
i'm just going to add like the spice and
stuff so i'm just using
a teaspoon of vanilla extract
a teaspoon of mixed spice half a
teaspoon of
nutmeg about a teaspoon of sweet
cinnamon as well
so i'm just going to add about a quarter
cup of water like to start with and then
cover it in a pan and then just kind of
cook and simmer that
for 30 45 minutes if it gets a bit dry
just add like a little bit
more water so maybe in total about half
a cup
of water but start off slow
i've just given that a little mix about
and then yeah i'm just going to put
the lid on top i need to order some new
um
i think like pops and pans right i feel
like i don't have
the right size like top thing so i just
popped my oven to preheat
at 180 degrees and then i'm gonna get
started
on the dough and i quite like doing this
bit
i need to get some like shape cutters
and i don't have like
i wanted like a star one or something
and i'm just going to do like little
round ones
like this isn't the most excited i've
been like whilst making something
recently like
who does not love a mince pie like i
years ago i think when i was really
young i remember thinking that mince
pies were made about chaw mincemeat
i'm sure i'm not the only one also these
are really nice with like some whipped
cream or like custard or anything on the
side as well
last christmas day oh my god like i was
then we were in france and i honestly
must have had like
15 of those like mini mince pies in a
single day start measuring out
60 grams of flour
40 grams of the vanilla
protein you could use like say cookies
cream as well
and if you've got like just like kind of
like more of a neutral flavor
and but i think this makes a difference
like
rather than adding you know like golden
syrup or something to the actual crust
because um
the protein's got some sweetener in it
and i'm just going to use this butter
i'm going to measure out 45
grams of this and then just pop this
in the microwave butter works better
with
pastry opposed to coconut oil
and i'm just going to microwave this for
about a minute
[Music]
so i've just added 26 grams of
almond milk
i've rolled my pastry within an inch of
its life
and i feel like it keeps coming back
inward so
i'm just going to do that some more
start cutting out some like minced pie
shaped thingamabobs i've just got my
little muffin tray
i picked this up with the wii capture
each review going to do is make like the
base of the yorkshire puddings write a
wide
cup a wide set cup and make the base
for these and then i'm going to use a
smaller cup i'm going to use
my one of my wine glasses to make like
the top
[Music]
and then i'm just going to roll this
back up for
the top of the mince pies
the finished mince meat in here this
smells
so nice i honestly wish you could smell
this through the screen it's so
zesty left this for i think it was about
40 minutes in the end and then i'm just
going to pop
these in each of the mince pies
[Music]
there's quite a bit left as well
and i'm going to use this smaller wine
glass it's just like a smaller diameter
to for the lids
[Music]
gone in the oven and i'm gonna leave
them in for like 15
to 20 minutes on 180 degrees and you
could have served them like straight
away
or store them for later you could freeze
them
cold do whatever just i'm waiting for
those to bake in the oven these are
really nice like you can have this as
like a christmas
pre-workout kind of snack i know means
i'm saying like
don't eat normal mince pies like i'm
going to have some norman's powers as
well but pouncing
like a dessert kind of thing on a night
at the moment actually like in december
like i have to
spend most of my evenings with some form
of like desert or something um
on a night so yeah this is a really good
shower i probably making like smaller
batteries like this one is of six
because i find it really hard to buy
like say if i get mince pies from a
supermarket they're always in like um
a 12 pack and obviously if it's just you
and like maybe one of the person that
you live with like
it saves anything like going to waste
and whatnot
so yeah oh here they are
they're at the oven and i've just left
them to call i've been dying to have a
bite but i thought i'd just save it
i'm so happy with how these turned out
like considering
there's like pretty like fairly minimal
fat compared to like your normal mince
pie kind of recipe
so let's give one a try try this little
crunchy one
mmm
really really nice
so that is inside bit i feel like you
can't have mince pie without
a bit of cream or something
that brings us to the end of this video
i really hope you enjoyed this one and
i do have some more christmas recipes
coming up so make sure you keep an eye
out for those ones
let me know if there's any like specific
like christmas recipes
you would like to see as well and of
course if you do try this recipe don't
forget to
tag me i would love to see your
recreations and
i'd love to stick around as well by
subscribing to my channel and making
sure you've liked this video
and i'll see you in the next video